Grid(docs): Add row pinning topic. (#1872)
IgniteUI/igniteui-docfx: en/components/grids_templates/row_pinning.md

﻿@@if (igxName === 'IgxGrid') {
---
title: Angular Grid Row Pinning | Lock Row | Ignite UI for Angular | Infragistics
_description: Start to use the Pinning feature of the Ignite UI for Angular Material table in order to lock rows with rich and easy to use API
_keywords: lock row, ignite ui for angular, infragistics 
---
}
@@if (igxName === 'IgxTreeGrid') {
---
title: Angular Tree Grid Row Pinning | Lock Row | Ignite UI for Angular | Infragistics
_description: Start to use the Pinning feature of the Ignite UI for Angular Material table in order to lock rows with rich and easy to use API
_keywords: lock row, ignite ui for angular, infragistics 
---
}
@@if (igxName === 'IgxHierarchicalGrid') {
---
title: Angular Hierarchical Grid Row Pinning | Lock Row | Ignite UI for Angular | Infragistics
_description: Start to use the Pinning feature of the Ignite UI for Angular Material table in order to lock rows with rich and easy to use API
_keywords: lock row, ignite ui for angular, infragistics 
---
}

### @@igComponent Row Pinning 

> A row or multiple rows can be pinned to the top or bottom of the Angular UI Grid. **Row Pinning** in Ignite UI for Angular allows the end users to lock rows in a particular order, this will allow them to see it while vertically scrolling the @@igComponent. The Material UI Grid has a built-in row pinning UI, which can be enabled via an `igxActionStrip` component to change the pin state of the rows. In addition, you can define a custom UI and change the pin state of the rows via the Row Pinning API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A row or multiple rows can be pinned to the top or bottom of the Angular UI Grid. **Row Pinning** in Ignite UI for Angular allows end users to pin rows in a particular order, duplicating them in a special area that is always visible even when the they scroll the @@igComponent vertically. The Material UI Grid has a built-in row pinning UI, which is enabled by initializing an `igxActionStrip` component in the context of @@igComponent. In addition, you can define a custom UI and change the pin state of the rows via the Row Pinning API.
```

</div>
}
@@if (igxName === 'IgxTreeGrid') {
<div class="sample-container loading" style="height:630px">
    <iframe id="treegrid-row-pinning-iframe" src='{environment:demosBaseUrl}/tree-grid/treegrid-row-pinning' width="100%" height="100%" seamless frameBorder="0" onload="onSampleIframeContentLoaded(this);"></iframe>
</div>
<br/>
<div>
<button data-localize="stackblitz" disabled class="stackblitz-btn" data-iframe-id="treegrid-row-pinning-iframe" data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}">view on stackblitz</button>
</div>
}
@@if (igxName === 'IgxHierarchicalGrid') {
<div class="sample-container loading" style="height:510px">
    <iframe id="hierarchical-grid-row-pinning-iframe" src='{environment:demosBaseUrl}/hierarchical-grid/hierarchical-grid-row-pinning' width="100%" height="100%" seamless frameBorder="0" onload="onSampleIframeContentLoaded(this);"></iframe>
</div>
<br/>
<div>
<button data-localize="stackblitz" disabled class="stackblitz-btn" data-iframe-id="hierarchical-grid-row-pinning-iframe" data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}">view on stackblitz</button>
</div>
}

### Row Pinning UI

> The built-in row pinning UI is enabled by adding a `igxActionStrip` component with the `GridPinningActions` component. The action strip can then be shown or hidden via its API and will display a pin icon via which the related row can be pinned or unpinned. An additional icon that allows for the copy of a pinned row to be found in the scrollable area is shown for each pinned row as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in row pinning UI is enabled by adding an `igxActionStrip` component with the `GridPinningActions` component. The action strip can then be shown or hidden via its API and will display a pin or unpin button icon based on the state of the row it is shown for. An additional button icon that allows for the copy of a pinned row to be found in the scrollable area is shown for each pinned row as well.
```

@@if (igxName === 'IgxGrid') {
```html
<igx-grid #grid1 [data]="data | async" [autoGenerate]="true" (onRowPinning)="rowPinning($event)"></igx-grid>
```

```typescript
public rowPinning(event) {
    event.insertAtIndex = 0;
}
```
}
@@if (igxName === 'IgxTreeGrid') {
```html
<igx-tree-grid #treeGrid [data]="data" primaryKey="ID" foreignKey="ParentID" [autoGenerate]="true" (onRowPinning)="rowPinning($event)"></igx-tree-grid>
```

```typescript
public rowPinning(event) {
    event.insertAtIndex = 0;
}
```
}
@@if (igxName === 'IgxHierarchicalGrid') {
```html
<igx-hierarchical-grid class="hgrid" [data]="localdata" [autoGenerate]="false"
        [height]="'600px'" [width]="'800px'" 
       (onRowPinning)="rowPinning($event)" #hierarchicalGrid>
</igx-hierarchical-grid> 
```

```typescript
public rowPinning(event) {
    event.insertAtIndex = 0;
}
```
}

### Pinning Position

You can change the row pinning position via the [`pinning`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/@@igTypeDoc.html#pinning) configuration option. It allows you to set the row position to either Top or Bottom.

> When set to Bottom the rows are rendered at the bottom of the grid, after the unpinned rows. Unpinned rows can be scrolled vertically, while the pinned rows remain fixed on the bottom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to Bottom the rows are rendered at the bottom of the grid, after the unpinned rows. Unpinned rows can be scrolled vertically, while the pinned rows remain fixed at the bottom.
```

@@if (igxName === 'IgxGrid') {
```html
<igx-grid [data]="data" [autoGenerate]="true" [pinning]="pinningConfig"></igx-grid>
```
}

@@if (igxName === 'IgxTreeGrid') {
```html
<igx-tree-grid #grid1 [data]="data" [autoGenerate]="true" [pinning]="pinningConfig"></igx-tree-grid>
```
}

@@if (igxName === 'IgxHierarchicalGrid') {
```html
<igx-hierarchical-grid #grid1 [data]="data" [autoGenerate]="true" [pinning]="pinningConfig"></igx-hierarchical-grid>
```
}

```typescript
public pinningConfig: IPinningConfig = { rows: RowPinningPosition.Bottom };
```

### Custom Row Pinning UI

You can define your custom UI and change the pin state of the rows via the related API.

#### Custom Row Pinning UI via extra column with icon

Let's say that instead of an action strip you would like to show pin icons in the rows that the end user can click to change the particular row's pin state.

> This can be done by adding an extra column with a cell template with the custom icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done by adding an extra column with a cell template containing the custom icon.
```

        if (currentRow.pinned && !args.dragData.pinned) {
            this.grid.pinRow(args.dragData.rowID, currRowPinnedIndex);
        } else if (!currentRow.pinned && args.dragData.pinned) {
            this.grid.unpinRow(args.dragData.rowID);
        } else if (currentRow.pinned && args.dragData.pinned) {
            this.grid.unpinRow(args.dragData.rowID);
            this.grid.pinRow(args.dragData.rowID, currRowPinnedIndex);
        }
    }
```

This would allow reordering the rows and moving them between the pinned and unpinned rows collection.

#### Demo

<div class="sample-container loading" style="height:510px">
    <iframe id="grid-row-pinning-drag-iframe" src='{environment:demosBaseUrl}/grid/grid-row-pinning-drag' width="100%" height="100%" seamless frameBorder="0" onload="onSampleIframeContentLoaded(this);"></iframe>
</div>
<br/>
<div>
<button data-localize="stackblitz" disabled class="stackblitz-btn" data-iframe-id="grid-row-pinning-drag-iframe" data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}">view on stackblitz</button>
</div>

}

### Row Pinning Limitations

* Only records that exist in the data source can be pinned.

> * Row pinning is not exported to excel. The grid is exported as if no row pinning is applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The row pinning state is not exported to excel. The grid is exported as if no row pinning is applied.
```

* The copies of pinned rows in the scrollable area of the grid are an integral part of how other grid features achieve their functionality in the presence of pinned rows and therefore their creation cannot be disabled nor can they be removed.
* As Row Selection works entirely with row Ids, selecting pinned rows selects their copies as well (and vise versa). Additionally, range selection (e.g. using Shift + click) within the pinned area works the same way as selecting a range of rows within the scrollable area. The resulting selection includes all rows in between even if they are not currently pinned. Getting the selected rows through the API only returns a single instance of each selected record.

<div class="divider--half"></div>

### Styling

The @@igxName allows styling through the [Ignite UI for Angular Theme Library](../themes/component-themes.md). The @@igComponent's [theme]({environment:sassApiUrl}/index.html#function-igx-grid-theme) exposes a wide variety of properties, which allow the customization of all the features of the @@igComponent.

> In the below steps, we are going through the steps of customizing the @@igComponent's row pinning styling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below, we are going through the steps of customizing the @@igComponent's row pinning styling.
```

> #### Importing global theme

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Importing the Styling Library
```

To begin the customization of the row pinning feature, you need to import the `index` file, where all styling functions and mixins are located.

```scss
@import '~igniteui-angular/lib/core/styles/themes/index'
```

> #### Defining custom theme

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Defining a Theme
```

#### Defining custom schemas

You can go even further and build flexible structure that has all the benefits of a [**schema**](../themes/schemas.md). The **schema** is the recipe of a theme.
Extend one of the two predefined schemas, that are provided for every component. In our case, we would use `$_light_grid`.

```scss
$custom-grid-schema: extend($_light-grid,(
    pinned-border-width: 5px,
    pinned-border-style: double,
    pinned-border-color: igx-color:("secondary", 500),
    cell-active-border-color: igx-color:("secondary", 500)
));
```
In order for the custom schema to be applied, either `light`, or `dark` globals has to be extended. The whole process is actually supplying a component with a custom schema and adding it to the respective component theme afterwards.

```scss
$my-custom-schema: extend($light-schema, (
    igx-grid: $custom-grid-schema
));
$custom-theme: igx-grid-theme(
    $palette: $custom-palette,
    $schema: $my-custom-schema

> );

Reviewer 2: Remove. This is not needed as it's explained in other doc articles.

```

#### Applying the custom theme
The easiest way to apply your theme is with a `sass` `@include` statement in the global styles file:
```scss
@include igx-grid($custom-theme);
```

#### Scoped component theme

In order for the custom theme to affect only specific component, you can move all of the styles you just defined from the global styles file to the custom component's style file (including the import of the `index` file).

This way, due to Angular's [ViewEncapsulation](https://angular.io/api/core/Component#encapsulation), your styles will be applied only to your custom component.
 >[!NOTE]
 >If the component is using an [`Emulated`](../themes/component-themes.md#view-encapsulation) ViewEncapsulation, it is necessary to penetrate this encapsulation using `::ng-deep` in order to style the grid.
 >[!NOTE]
 >Wrap the statement inside of a `:host` selector to prevent your styles from affecting elements *outside of* our component:

```scss
:host {
    ::ng-deep {
        @include igx-grid($custom-theme);
    }

> }

Reviewer 2: This example should use the `igx-css-vars` by default as it's the preferred method for including themes. You should mention the `igx-grid` only in the context of IE11. The scoped theme sample should use the igx-css-vars mixin as well. Please, take a look at the avatar topic for instance.

</div>
}
@@if (igxName === 'IgxTreeGrid') {
<div class="sample-container loading" style="height:530px">
    <iframe id="tree-grid-row-pinning-styling" data-src='{environment:demosBaseUrl}/tree-grid/tree-grid-row-pinning-styling' width="100%" height="100%" seamless frameBorder="0" class="lazyload no-theming"></iframe>
</div>
<div>
    <button data-localize="stackblitz" disabled class="stackblitz-btn" data-iframe-id="grid-pinning-styling" data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}">view on stackblitz</button>
</div>
}
@@if (igxName === 'IgxHierarchicalGrid') {
<div class="sample-container loading" style="height:530px">
    <iframe id="hierarchical-grid-row-pinning-styling" data-src='{environment:demosBaseUrl}/hierarchical-grid/hierarchical-grid-row-pinning-styling' width="100%" height="100%" seamless frameBorder="0" class="lazyload no-theming"></iframe>
</div>
<div>
    <button data-localize="stackblitz" disabled class="stackblitz-btn" data-iframe-id="grid-pinning-styling" data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}">view on stackblitz</button>
</div>
}

### API References

> * [@@igxNameComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/@@igTypeDoc.html)

Reviewer 2: Don't forget to include a reference to the Styling documentation as well.
